A lot of this is just to note down concisely what's in the book, so that it can be read in 15 minutes later to grab every gist.

Parts 1 and 2

Dubner, journalist
Levitt, economist

superpredator
James Alan Fox, criminologist, "The next crime wave will get so bad that it will make 1995 look like the good old days"
Clinton
$--- some legal digging outside of the book cuz I know nothing about it ---
plaintiff, one that's taking pity of themselves, and defendant
litigation, process of taking a case to court, usually connected to civil lawsuits where 1 party sues another
attorney, fancy word for lawyer
retainer agreement, work-for-hire agreement. Customer pays in advanced, then discusses the work later
may go into a lawsuit without an attorney, called "pro se", literally "by self"

Process:
- Plaintiff filing a complaint, might also include a summons to notify the defendant and set a deadline for a response
- Discovery: parties begin gathering information and taking deposition (statements)
- Motions are filed by both parties

How legal stuff works internationally?
Seems like a nice website about business: https://www.thebalancesmb.com
$--- legal montage done ---

Norma McCorvey, girl who wants abortion. Roe v. Wade, court case

Why hire a real-estate agent to sell your home when you can sell it yrself? And what's the process of selling a house?
3000/100000 houses were owned by the real-estate agent

Truism at work, money buys elections, later discussed to be false:
- Arnold Schwarzenegger
- Michael Bloomberg
- Jon Corzine
Contrary examples:
- Steve Forbes
- Michael Huffington
- Thomas Golisano

wayward thinking, wayward response, wtf are those?

Economics is about how you can extract some crucial data in a bunch of other data, how I interpreted the author

Few fundamental ideas outlined:
- Incentives are the cornerstone of modern life
- Conventional wisdom is conventional
- Dramatic effects often have distant, even subtle, causes
- "Experts" use their informational advantage to serve their own agenda, although their infomational advantage is shrinking every day in the face of the Internet
- Knowing what to measure and how to measure it makes a complicated world much less so. Seems like a mindset I'll need to use. The jury is still out, but at least that's what I'm hoping for

Oscar Danilo Blandon, aka Johnny Appleseed of Crack

Oh yeah, I remember Adam Smith. What's the deal with him? Apparently, he lived in a time where incentives were magnified 10 fold
Robert Heilbroner, historian writing "The Worldly Philosophers", comments on Adam Smith's ability to separate these:
- doings of man - creature of self-interest
- greater moral plane
(which basically asks "humans act in their self-interest, so how can they stand back and look at everything else", which Smith answers it pretty simple lol, "...our ability to put ourselves in the positionof a third person, an impartial observer")

Haifa, Israel. 8 late pickups per week. $3 per child each day if late. 20 late pickups per week??? Summary is that moral incentives can and will collide with economic incentives

It seems like to me that to make things work, I must enter the game and invent some incentive scheme

Btw, I have to admit though, when someone inventing nice and clever incentive schemes, it seems like that person wants to gain something out of a system (machine, to be familiar) through means of increasing its efficiency. So, why not just, plop down another machine, ultilize exponential growth and gains a whole lot more than just some minor efficiency?

Also what is to deal with the old problem: When you started turning a test (whose goal is to measure how well a student is doing) into a goal, that diminishes the effectiveness of the test. Like, when you start to put stakes in student tests, they want to cheat more and thus, makes the goal of the test not as effective.

Chicago Public Schools, 400k students, 30k students for each grade. "high-stakes testing"
"Social promotion"
Sounds interesting that the school system has data on this stuff. May be download it and analyze the data myself?
Arne Duncan, CEO, 2002

$--- some union digging outside of the book ---
So they're basically a group of employees whose purpose is to say to their boss "hey boss, I can't take this anymore, I deserve to have a raise". They form a group to form some kind of authority since the 18th century when the indistrial revolution is taking place.
But, I've just come across the phrase "international unions". Like wtf? I thought it's meant to be a closed group inside of a company alone and is kind of unofficial? And that the governance structure is quite simple. Here, it sounds like it's an official authoritative body? So which is it?
"An employer is required to bargain with a union. After the 2 sides agree, a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) is signed. The employer is then under supervision by the union to make sure it is following the rules"

Also, is it really that bad nowadays? I mean, it's not like when the industrial revolution had just started and workers are in shitty conditions. Things have definitely moved on, so what's the deal with them in today's world?

Again, sources suggest that most of these unions are for the garment industry, may be some heavy industry as well. But like, Aren't those automated already? If it's not then what's stopping someone like me to automate the process?

Btw it seems like this kind of thing is in the US alone from what I've read? Some dominant unions: American Federation of Labor, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Weekly earnings is around 1000, non union is around 800.
$--- union montage done ---

Sumos: 1989 to 2000. 32000 bouts (fights?) by 281 wrestlers, 66 of them is in the elite group. 6 tournaments a year, 15 bouts per tournament, 1 per day. Eighth victory is kinda like the knife's edge.

Honor system, bagel, 8400 bagels a week to 140 companies. 9/11 effect, small offices pay more than big ones. Weather and holidays also affect the cheating rate. Holidays that represent day offs, the cheat rate increases, and vive versa

Glaucon, sees ppl are mostly bad

Ku Klux Klan? Why the weird name? It's a terriorist organization promoting whites. 1920s, neo, ranged throughout the US. Hitler was seemingly copying Ku Klux. Postwar uncertainty lead the expansion of the group, which was then based in Atlanta
Stetson Kennedy, 30 yr old member, but more of an undercover journalist, has a Klansman uncle. "The Klan Unmasked".
Mysterious guy called John Brown goes in deep
Still don't understand why giving the info public would make ppl not go there

$--- some insurance digging outside of the book ---
So it appears that there are 2 types of life insurance. "term" and "permanent". Term is cheaper, sometimes much cheaper, covers for something like 20-30 years. If you die then you get a bunch of money, something like $1M (that's from the book, $250k from other sources). That money is going to a list of ppl you made. But term only pays for that, when you die. If you don't die then you don't receive any kind of money. The opposite goes for permanent life insurance. Permanent builds up the money you save, and is cheaper at old age.

What about other types?
$--- insurance montage done ---

Enron, energy company, defunct in 2001. Aug 2000, California, "Burn Baby Burn".

So the author's position is that experts hide information to gain a competitive advantage, and that they intentionally obscure things. This view is certainly popular. CGP Grey's "Rule for Rulers" talks about this with more depth, also "The Dictator's handbook". And hell, I've done it sometimes lol, but not quite to the level and magnitude that the author is suggesting.

Okay, yeah, I accept that. But does it worth it to go through the burden of analyzing the mountainous information the experts know of? Like, just for goodness sake, pay them a little more than usual and not having to care about their work at all. After all, everything needs to be modular (i.e there has to be specialization) or if not then technology won't advanced to the level it is today. And to be honest, I kinda think it's okay for the experts to do this because they have spent time and effort going into that field already. Of course, if I or someone wants to have a breakthrough in any field then doing vertical integration and not out sourcing as much works. This requires enormous effort from the disruptor side, like hell, Tesla is planning to mine their own lithium (https://techcrunch.com/2019/06/11/tesla-might-get-into-the-mining-business-to-secure-minerals-for-electric-batteries/), and they are able to cut through the bullshit when out sourcing. But like, for a normal operation, for a normal business, for a normal world, it's okay for the expert to hide information (they shouldn't do it, but it's okay).

The Weakest Link, television show, more or less like Jeopardy. There's a jackpot. It grows when the group answers it nicely. Last guy standing gets the jackpot. Data shows that on the early rounds, bad players get voted out, to increase the jackpot and then later on, good players are voted out to make sure oneself will win the pot.
Theories, elder, latino, 2 kinds of discrimination: taste (just because, most elders fell into this) and informational (educated decision, most latino fell into this)

Okay, sure, so what's the point of saying this really? Isn't it really obvious?

About online dating and sharing personal information and stuff. How honest are ppl with their personal ad? Yeah they're not so truthful, but that is to be expected. 56% of men don't receive even an email, and 21% of women too. Gist of it is quite intuitive, and both sexes play to be the best of their stereotypes, guys want good looking gals, and gals want guys with high income (which correlates to security) and is looking for a long rela. Race, lots say it doesn't matter, but 90% of white guys want white gals, and 97% for the white gals. I think there's some truth to that though, cuz I like Asian gals more. They're more familiar, and let's say, more eccentric.

